# Pondering Paths

>The Linux filesystem is a "tree". That is, it has a root.You refer to files and directories by their path. A path from the root of the filesystem starts with /

Learnt about absolute paths, invoking commands from absolute and relative paths, the differences between implicit and explicit relative paths, parent and self directories and home directory expansions and what '~' means at the beginning of every prompt.

<br>
<br>

## 2.1 The_root
>Alright, so the filesystem starts at /. You can invoke a program by providing its path on the command line.This style of path, one that starts with the root directory, is referred to as an "absolute path".

Reading and learning that absolute paths start from the root directory, it was easy to invoke the program using its absolute path.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{okkVay6kPgNwQ5Md0wtkVEFM3t_.dhzN5QDLwETN0czW}
```

<br>
<br>

## 2.2 Program_and_absolute_paths
>This challenge again requires you to execute it by invoking its absolute path.

I ran the ```run``` program from within a directory which itself is in a root directory was not tricky to figure out.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{EXYRVCt8CzCZbYmMFDrr_ToR_9W.dVDN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 2.3 Position_thy_self
>The Linux filesystem has tons of directories with tons of files. You can navigate around directories by using the cd command. This challenge will require you to execute the /challenge/run program from a specific path.


The use of the 'cd' command was taught in our PPS lab subject, running the program and getting information about where to actually run it from (by ' cd'ing ' to it) was not a difficult task.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{k5QxsNXaZRWEqhw5mT_DmUytqHZ.dZDN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 2.4 Position_elsewhere
This program and 2.5 were mirrors of 2.4, replicated execution with not much trickyness.

### Flag

```
pwn.college{869OTiOrTSDy6UoNpuUiCXbQWBk.ddDN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 2.5 Position_yet_elsewhere
As stated earlier, this program is also a replica of 2.3 and 2.4 with different arguments but the same concept.

### Flag 
```
pwn.college{skjYmwk_S9T6aw_2sBa8AA_LvDy.dhDN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 2.6 Implicit_relative_paths (from /)
>A relative path is any path that does not start at root (i.e., it does not start with /).

Not too complicated to differentiate between absolute and relative paths.

Example: <br>
Absolute path: ``` /users/cryptonite/taskphase ```<br>
Relative path(assuming / to be cwd): ```users/cryptonite/taskphase```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{oUI3iPDdihT6m3cyop2z0I3idaQ.dlDN1QDLwETN0czW}
```

<br>
<br>

## 2.7 Explicit_relative_paths (from /)
>This challenge will get you using . in your relative paths, where '.' referes to the same/current directory.

The major difference between explicit and implicit relative paths boils down to the distinction between the mentions of the current directory.

Example(assuming the cwd to be / in both the cases): <br>
Implicit: ```users/cryptonite/taskphase``` <br>
Explicit: ```./users/cryptonite/taskphase```

## Flag
```
pwn.college{spo4miSUhYjMSbhHsQF9216deRB.dBTN1QDLwETN0czW}
```

<br>
<br>


## 2.8 Implicit_relative_paths
> ```
> hacker@dojo:~$ cd /challenge <br>
> hacker@dojo:/challenge$ run
> ```
> This will not invoke /challenge/run. This is actually a safety measure.

While invoking progamms using implicit relative paths, you can't provide naked paths, as a safety measure, linux by default will NOT search the current directory when invoking a program in the current directory.
It needs to be run like an explicit relative path, specifying linux to invoke the program in the current directory using '.' .


### Flag
```
pwn.college{8BkPfTtbjOHWAjFqPnUEs0jZwJt.dFTN1QDLwETN0czW}
```

<br>
<br>

## 2.9 Home_sweet_home
>Every user has a home directory. Every user has a home directory. In the dojo, you are the hacker user, and your home directory is /home/hacker. The ~ in this prompt is the current working directory, with ~ being shorthand for /home/hacker.

This challenge was complicated and took time to figure what it wanted the user to do.

 ```/challenge/run``` will copy the flag to any file mentioned in its argument PROVIDED it follows constraints. The first 2 were easy to figure out, 1. The argument must be a relative path and 2. it must be inside your home directory. 3. The argument must be 3 characters or less.

 The first and second constraint boils the argument down to ```~/``` where the '~' specifies the home directory and the '/' specifies the absolute path.
 
 The reason the third constraint was confusing is due to the fact that only one character is left for the argument and that the user is unaware of any one character directory existing within the home directory.
However, after trial and error, it proves that ```~/~``` works and in fact any character after ```~/``` works as it just needs to write the flag to a file within a home directory.

 ### Flag
```
pwn.college{clhynDZ8Nalne_Tyvv3qHoIv-oJ.dNzM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>





