# Comprehending Commands
Learnt many commands including but not limited to: cat, grep, ls, touch, mkdir, rm, find and ln.
Learnt the use of -a argument in ls command.
<br>
<br>
<br>

## 3.1 cat:_not_the_pet_but_the_command
>One of the most critical Linux commands is cat.

'Cat' comes from the word concatenate, which is one of its functions given appropriate arguments. Its main feature is to read out files, with the argument being the path to the file which needs to be read out. Also, if you use it without an argument, it reads back all you type in the terminal, and is pretty tricky to figure out how to exit it.

Syntax: ``` cat filename/filepath ```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{gzGAEuangwz5QYBsmO8XyyYagU-.dFzN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.2 catting_absolute_paths
>You can, of course, specify cat's arguments as absolute paths.

Running the cat command with an absolute path as an argument was not that difficult to figure out since its almost the same thing done in the last round except not in the home directory.


### Flag
```
pwn.college{4i6b4fF1I5XRWnLhjNyNO8VH8MH.dlTM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.3 more_catting_practice
> I'll put the flag in some crazy directory, and I will not allow you to change directories with cd, so no cat flag for you.

Nothing new to solve in this particular challenge, a longer absolute path was given to be used ass the argument in which the flag was placed.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{gJ2nAnHe0SgyxlKjTjUC52IJG5a.dBjM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.4 grepping_for_a_needle_in_a_haystack
>Sometimes, the files that you might cat out are too big. Luckily, we have the grep command to search for the contents we need.

'grep' command is like the find function, in case of large outputs of a file, specific characters and/or strings can be searched to make it easier to find what is being looked for. In this case, to find the flag in a file with "hundred thousand lines of text", grep helps to find the flag as it consistently starts with 'pwn.college'.

Syntax: ``` grep text_to_be_searched /path/to/file ```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{EqvJ7ZPBs-1VYusRxL7FIDIqrc9.ddTM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.5 listing_files
>ls will list files in all the directories provided to it as arguments, and in the current directory if no arguments are provided.

~~Seemingly, this challenge has been glitched for me, multiple references and a look in the terminal shows that the commands that need to be executed are simply printed on the screen, multiple attempts of restarting the website, terminal and the computer proved futile.~~

```
Connected!
hacker@commands~listing-files:~$ cd /challenge
hacker@commands~listing-files:/challenge$ ls
10972-renamed-run-2600  DESCRIPTION.md
hacker@commands~listing-files:/challenge$ cat 10972-renamed-run-2600
#!/opt/pwn.college/bash

echo "Yahaha, you found me! Here is your flag:"
cat /flag
hacker@commands~listing-files:/challenge$
```

~~As visible, it shows the commands, 'echo "yahaha...."' instead of actually echoing the argument and similarly, cat /flag was supposed to execute but it only returned the text of 'cat /flag'.
I will try again the next day, but i haven't been able to get the flag of this one.~~


I had to get help for this one, using cat to call/ display the flag file was giving everyone the same error, the solution was to invoke the renamed file directly using its absolute path. I'll keep this in mind moving forward.

Syntax: ``` ls /path/of_directory/to_list/ (empty for listing current directory) ```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{E2FKyl8ULh9fXGeNaRk6jMqgalY.dhjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```

<br>
<br>




## 3.6 touching_files
>You can create a new, blank file by touching it with the touch command.

Creating 2 new files in a directory, straight forward use of the command and the path of the file created as the argument.

Syntax: ``` touch /directory_the/file_is/to_be/created_in/file_name (directly file name if file to be made in cwd) ```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{wi2_103TSCZPxVDpuX-VzIeSNAd.dBzM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.7 removing_files
>In Linux, you remove files with the rm command.

Removing a file from the home directory to get the flag.

Syntax: ``` rm /directory_the/file_is/to_be/removed_in/file_name (directly file name if file to be removed in cwd) ```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{8mSzAPEajyjBKuNoS79Q0KbHv7p.dZTOwUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.8 hidden_flag
>Linux has a convention where files that start with a . don't show up by default in ls and in a few other contexts.

This challenge hid the flag in the '/' directory, ls with the argument '-a' shows the hidden files as well in the current directory.

Syntax: ``` ls -a xxx/xxx ```


### Flag
```
pwn.college{MFTjne1SZBrhdFJyykgOwG3hQgk.dBTN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.9 an_epic_filesystem_quest
>In this challenge, I have hidden the flag! Here, you will use ls and cat to follow my breadcrumbs and find it.

THIS is a VERY long goose chase, it used all commands used in this module upto now including cat with arguements to long directories without being able to cd to them, being forced to cd to directories and listing hidden files and executing them, only to find another clue in another long directory.
Straight forward, very repetitive, and fun.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{An8Iya5e5_kA_hfn3mSyUEKtSXD.dljM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.10 making_directories
>You make directories using the mkdir command.

the 'mkdir' command was not a big hurdle, similar to the 'touch' command, except it creates directories instead of files.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{MzZDdyx6bXvXw3S5ugJKiu9mPb-.dFzM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 3.11 finding_files
>The find command takes optional arguments describing the search criteria and the search location.

Took some trial and error to find the file itself by catting and cd'ing very long directories, painfully tedious, but simple so far.

Syntax: ``` find /name_of/directory ``` 

(for searching a specific file name, we can add '-name' and add the name of the file as the argument) 
Syntax: ``` find -name flag ```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{A2mQr3PO2xKgcByUJ96Z1MuFUde.dJzM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

# 3.12 linking_files
>Links come in two flavors: hard and soft (also known as symbolic) links. In most cases, both situations result in accessing the original data, but the mechanisms are different.

Hard links and soft links come as a big difference with minimal distinction, hard links can be thought of as a second door to the same house. A soft link however, is more analogous to a portal to that house, a mirror dimension which leads to the original house. Minimal differences with a much larger impact, so much so making soft links a much more popular and convinient choice. 
<br>

Seemingly simple challenge, but this took a lot more effort that any previous ones, understanding linking with the constant message of being denied permission to link proved annoying, but satisfying.

Syntax(for symbolic/soft links): ``` ln -s /directory_of/file_to/be_linked /directory_where/the_file/is_to/be_linked ```
### Flag
```
pwn.college{sJsGvdOAIN6L_YAFR_T7gBUrstq.dlTM1UDLwETN0czW}
```






