# Digesting_Documentation


## 4.1 Learning from documentation
>The correct usage of programs depends, in a large part, in the proper specification of arguments to them.
>Welcome to the documentation for /challenge/challenge! To properly run this program, you will need to pass it the argument of --giveflag. Good luck!

Challenge required to pass an argument while accessing the directory/file of the flag, simple in concept.

### Flag
``` 
pwn.college{khTfi0ioBmoWZfxx1LrqQ6jQ08m.dRjM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 4.2 Learning complex usage
>Somewhere on the spectrum between cd and awk are commands that take arguments to their arguments...

Specifying arguements to already entered arguments is not new, as mentioned in the challenge this has been encountered before in the challenge requiring 'find -name'.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{c0W3HK9FwPZ0XhnAnQhNjvJ1JiO.dVjM5QDLwETN0czW}
```

<br>
<br>

## 4.3 Reading manuals
>This level introduces the man command. man is short for manual, and will display (if available) the manual of the command you pass as an argument.
>You can scroll around the manpage with your arrow keys and PgUp/PgDn. When you're done reading the manpage, you can hit q to quit.

Manuals, Reading and quittig manuals, the argument and usage of the 'man' command, reading and usage of the manual of challenge was given to fiddle around with, simple in concept.

### Flag
```  
pwn.college{4BiiX6BvoN3gp9zDGmpl0oP2wef.dRTM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 4.4 Searching manuals
>You can search manpages with /. After searching, can hit n to go to the next result, and N to go to the previous result. Instead of /, ? can be used to search backwards.

Searching the manual for the argument that gives the flag among hundreds was easy with the / command.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{0j9hVGdlu4Vt8nXZyf2nqrTlHUl.dVTM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 4.5 Searching for manuals
>This level is tricky: it hides the manpage for the challenge by randomizing its name.

A LOT of reading, after all that reading, it was given that -K is a global search across ALL manuals for keywords, but an easier option was to use the -k arguement, which searches only decriptions for keywords.

### flag
```
pwn.college{YnDJRebRj4iFly5RWiDE8IMJggt.dZTM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 4.6 Helpful Programs
>Some programs don't have a man page, but might tell you how to run them if invoked with a special argument.

``` --help ``` Generally a smaller manual page which helps with syntax usage, *helped* find the flag for this one. 

### Flag
```
pwn.college{I8LEWbhIH93QwtxGFAdzkPq-9RE.ddjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 4.7 Help for bulletins
>Some commands, rather than being programs with man pages and help options, are built into the shell itself. These are called builtins.

Bulletins, are just builtin root/basic commands built into the shell/command prompt. 'Challenge' was a bulletin in this challenge, and so is help. ``` Help challenge ``` gives the instructions to solve this challenge.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{AFD6yatpxi-vZN3ieN0xVp2-SGp.dRTM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
