# File Globbing
>Even just a few levels in, you might already be tired of typing out all these file paths. Luckily, the shell has a solution: globbing!

## 5.1 Matching with *
>The first glob we'll learn is *. When it encounters a * character in any argument, the shell will treat it as "wildcard" and try to replace that argument with any files that match the pattern.

Character limit constraint for cd'ing to a directory to find the flag, '*' helped to 'approximate' (?) the directory.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{EVx4LAjRzPF22eygbFAmgtwG5tt.dFjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 5.2 Matching with ?
>Let's learn about ?. When it encounters a ? character in any argument, the shell will treat it as single-character wildcard.

It's very similar to '*', except it only 'approximates' to one character, so something like cd'ing to ```/challenge``` using ```/ch*``` wont work.
### Flag
```
pwn.college{M3nOR8vQhcjLWUfPTOtTp4SONp3.dJjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 5.3 Matching with [ ]
> Next, we will cover []. The square brackes are, essentially, a limited form of ?, in that instead of matching any character, [] is a wildcard for some subset of potential characters, specified within the brackets.

Instead of looking for every single character, it looks only for the characters specified as arguements within [].

### Flag
```
pwn.college{grmFcQ5g3_0OnW6Lj5FmZhILcBD.dNjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 5.4 Matching paths with [ ]
>Globbing happens on a path basis, so you can expand entire paths with your globbed arguments.



### Flag
```
pwn.college{wl2e_JsSO9gB7EkTSFoWVzL2W5o.dRjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 5.5 Mixing globs
>Write a single, short (6 characters or less) glob that will match the files "challenging", "educational", and "pwning"

This was challenging, took a lot of time, had a eureka moment of "ohhhhhhhhh" when i got it.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{kYCYrY2Svdoju8no0bmcyK0M3WR.dVjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>


## 5.6 Exclusionary globbing
>Sometimes, you want to filter out files in a glob! Luckily, [] helps you do just this.

Learnt how to EXCLUDE characters from globbing, simple in concept.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{8iJxgqi0UoIUl0VhzVmZwZ5dA5X.dZjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```





