# Practicing piping
>This module will teach you about input and output redirection. Simply put, every process in Linux has three initial, standard channels of communication:

Standard Input is the channel through which the process takes input. For example, your shell uses Standard Input to read the commands that you input.
Standard Output is the channel through which processes output normal data, such as the flag when it is printed to you in previous challenges or the output of utilities such as ls.
Standard Error is the channel through which processes output error details. For example, if you mistype a command, the shell will output, over standard error, that this command does not exist.

## 6.1 Redirecting Output
>First, let's look at redirect stdout to files. You can accomplish this with the > character.

using ``` echo PWN > college ```, we can write the output of the

### Flag
```
pwn.college{YksszvW6q9HMeGuCI3a6s4gevgF.dRjN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 6.2 Redirecting more output
>Aside from redirecting the output of echo, you can, of course, redirect the output of any command.

Redirected the output of /challenge/run to a separate file, Found that file using the ``` find ``` command, and catt'ed it out to the terminal.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{UNaytNE_Y8fIEEuPLZLTVCYhxq-.dVjN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 6.3 Appending output
>A common use-case of output redirection is to save off some command results for later analysis. Often times, you want to do this in aggregate: run a bunch of commands, save their output, and grep through it later.

This can be done using '>>' instead of '>', this 'append' mode will write all the contents of all commands to the same file, aggregating them all.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{Yd8tNifXyk3Ljth0FsTrbhq_UNZ.ddDM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 6.4 Redirecting errors
>Just like standard output, you can also redirect the error channel of commands. A File Descriptor (FD) is a number the describes a communication channel in Linux. You've already been using them, even though you didn't realize it.
>FD 0: Standard Input
>FD 1: Standard Output
>FD 2: Standard Error


This is very useful for, almost anything and everything needing to be built or executed, to funnel the errors and output into different files using minimal characters is unsurprisingly efficient.

Syntax: ``` some_command > output.log 2> errors.log ``` 
That command will redirect output to output.log and errors to errors.log.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{UV4gCmrMwZQ3pMd1YOvqapeoAcw.ddjN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 6.5 Redirecting input
>Just like you can redirect output from programs, you can redirect input to programs! This is done using <.

Directed the text 'COLLEGE' to PWN, then redirected input of PWN to /challenge/run, and it read the text 'COLLEGE' out of it, then gave the flag.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{olMlvsCAdfoTr4nl10WkyyHcr2k.dBzN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 6.6 Grepping stored results
>You know how to run commands, how to redirect their output (e.g., >), and how to search through the resulting file (e.g., grep). Let's put this together.

This challenge was straight forward, required the use of grep and redirection at the same time. Redirected the output of one file to ```/tmp/data.txt```. Then grep'ed through the output in ```/tmp/data.txt``` for the flag.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{A424silU11FakKKdP4HqzI0rUzB.dhTM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

# 6.7 Grepping live output
>It turns out that you can "cut out the middleman" and avoid the need to store results to a file, like you did in the last level. You can use this using the | (pipe) operator.

The pipe operator, pipes Standard output from command from left of the pipe to the standard input of the command right of the pipe. Essentially writing 1 lline of code instead of 2 in this case.

Syntax: ``` command_whos_std_out_will_be_connected_to | the_stdin_of_this_command ```

### Flag 
```
pwn.college{A-QsN3fMihEl_DlogGOhJTlc34T.dlTM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 6.8 Grepping errors
>The | operator redirects only standard output to another program, and there is no 2| form of the operator! It can only redirect standard output (file descriptor 1).

So essentially, what this program wants us to do is redirect errors to a file to grep through them using the pipe command, however, redirecting errors through the pipe command is not possible conventionally.

The roundabout is to redirect the error file descriptor to a stdout file descriptor, which essentially CAN be piped and grepped through.


### Flag
```
pwn.college{AtHO0WNJocAqQk9R6Ba4nwsfuf3.dVDM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 6.9 Duplicating piped data with tee
>When you pipe data from one command to another, you of course no longer see it on your screen. This is not always desired: for example, you might want to see the data as it flows through between your commands to debug unintended outcomes.

Since piping, by visualisation, we can imagine is a closed pipe, the output of the first command is not visible on the screen. However, the ```tee``` command, (like a T splitter) can be imagined like spitting the output of the first command to stdout (or another file) AND piped to the std in of the second command. 

It can be imagined like so:
<br>
Syntax: ```command_whos_std_out_will_be_connected_to | tee [(stdout or anotherfile) | (the_stdin_of_this_command)]```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{IXbTtoJ13rMwH3CuFoDMugPPb3e.dFjM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 6.10 Writing to multiple programs
>Okay, so you can duplicate data to two files with tee, And you've used tee to duplicate data to a file and a command,But what about duplicating to two commands?


Linux essentially considers/allows a lot of commands and arguements, to provide file-like functions and resources to almost everything, including commands. So just changing the syntax up a bit, (adding a ```>() ``` ), can allow linux to consider | second argument to be file-like, so as to write the output of the first command to its input, like so:

Syntax: ``` command_1 | tee > (command2) ```  OR something more complex would be like ``` command_1 | tee > (command2) > > >(command3) ```
<br>
This will execute command 1, then give the output of command one as input to the second command, the command 2 will display output considering the input of command 1.

The second one will duplicate the output of command1 as input to both command 2 and command 3.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{cVBSw4QNt14QtVtbI15OqcFickp.dBDO0UDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

# 6.11 Split-piping stderr and stdout
>Now, let's put your knowledge together. You must master the ultimate piping task: redirect stdout to one program and stderr to another.

This one i struggled with a LOT. Even in the previous programs, i found using ```>``` was sometimes much easier than using ```|```. And this program too, i tried to do it using ```|```, however it wouldnt work the way i wanted it to. I watched explainations online, and took help from a friend and ultimately ended up doing it using ```>```(also didnt require the use of &, since ```|``` was not used). Basically routing the output of one command to to the input of another, and routing the error of that program to input of another program. Simple in concept, very difficult in practice, still need to figure out how to do it using ```|```.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{YRPfhDJEhD--nP50UG32yrRPWGT.dFDNwYDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>






























