# 7 Shell Variables
>The Linux command line interface is actually a sophisticated programming language with which you can write actual programs! Because the command line interface is colloquially referred to as a "shell", programs written in this language are referred to as "shell scripts".


## 7.1 Printing variables
>Let's start with printing variables out.

Learnt how to ```echo``` variables out to stdout, using ```$```.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{Y4_ZiO8aw-c0A4inegEq67z6Qc4.ddTN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 7.2 Setting variables
>Naturally, as well as reading values stored in variables, you can write values to variables. This is done, as with many other languages, using ```=```.

Careful not to use spaces, as shell will try to execute the variable (?), if it reads a space after the variable, and executing a variable is not possible. Also, ```$``` is only used to access variables, not write to them.

### Flag 
```
pwn.college{MLzbumtlBSxTIBgXyIn7WudfMEG.dlTN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 7.3 Multi-word variables
>In this level, you will learn about quoting. Spaces have special significance in the shell, and there are places where you can't use them spuriously.

The use of quotes is very important in assigning variables as something like ``` varName=var name``` doesnt work because the shell reads the ```name``` as an argument/command.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{cLRLpHZwjz6MeN9g9X8y0Bq9Qy2.dBjN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 7.4 Exporting variables
>By default, variables that you set in a shell session are local to that shell process. That is, other commands you run won't inherit them.

Variable values are local to a specific shell session, i.e, child shells, or completely different shells, will not be receiving the value of a set variable by default, unless one wants it to. This is done for a good reason, variables containing sensitive information should not be leaked to other programs unless prompted. Said prompts can be done by exporting the variable.

Syntax: ``` export varName ```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{Msn-oRkWK3wQ1cJhqjCDHgy5IqP.dJjN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 7.5 Printing exported variables
>There are multiple ways to access variables in bash. echo was just one of them, and we'll now learn at least one more in this challenge.

```env``` command prints out evert exported variable set in the shell.

Syntax: ```env``` 

### Flag
```
FLAG=pwn.college{QUyvf13Uu8U8_1msAy-W5DkiKdr.dhTN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 7.6 Storing Command output
>In the course of working with the shell, you will often want to store the output of some command into a variable. Luckily, the shell makes this quite easy using something called Command Substitution.

This challenge gives insight into command substitution/ assigning the output of a command to a variable.

Syntax: ``` varName=$(command) ``` <br>

Challenge also gives insight to the fact that ``` ` ``` can also be used instead of brackets, however due to problems during nesting, and backticks being an older format, ```()``` are always preferred.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{MKHWak110aGBtV3k8Q66w_wMJx6.dVzN0UDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 7.7 Reading input
>We'll start with reading input from the user (you). That's done using the aptly named read builtin, which reads input.

The read command lets the user input a value to a variable, kind of like scanf in C. The -p argument if used with read, allows the user to specify a prompt, kind of like adding text before a scanf to let the user know what they are supposed to enter.

Syntax: ``` read -p "prompt" varName ``` or ``` read varName ```<br>

### Flag
```
pwn.college{4IdDwuFkXW5F1iprnEoXcB5fusb.dhzN1QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 7.8 Reading files
>Often, when shell users want to read a file into an environment variable, they do something like:
>```
>hacker@dojo:~$ echo "test" > some_file
>hacker@dojo:~$ VAR=$(cat some_file)
>hacker@dojo:~$ echo $VAR
>test
>```
>This works, but it represents what grouchy hackers call a "Useless Use of Cat". That is, running a whole other program just to read the file is a waste.

Instead of running a whole other program to assign a files contents to a variable, the ```<``` can be used with ``` read ``` to give the stdin of read the contents of the file.

Syntax: ``` read varName < fileName ```

### Flag
```
pwn.college{ETKVLuG-UYHPV62cuC1RHpK59Hb.dBjM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>








