# Processes and Jobs
>Computers execute software to get stuff done. In modern computing, this software is split into two categories: operating system kernels (about which we will learn much later) and processes, which we will discuss here. When Linux starts up, it launches an init (short for initializer) process that, in turn, launches a bunch of other processes which launch more processes until, eventually, you are looking at your command line shell, which is also a process! The shell, of course, launches processes in response to the commands you enter.

## 8.1 Listing Processes
>First, we will learn to list running processes using the ```ps``` command.

PS stands for process snapshot or process status, apparently both work depending on whos defining it. It lists all the processes running in the terminal.

>Each process has a identifier (PID), it is a number that uniquely identifies every running process in the linux environment.

Generally, default ps is not that useful, it can be made useful with more arguments.

Standard Syntax: ``` ps -ef ```, where -e stands to list every process and -f is a full format output. combined, they give -ef.

BSD Syntax: ``` ps aux ```, in this syntax, a stands to list processes for all users, x to list processes that aren't running in a terminal, and u for a 'user-readable' output.

Both methods give different output, but they work in similar ways.


In this challenge we have to find the running process of /challenge/flag_name using ```ps```.
### Flag
```
pwn.college{8sGBhCREC2RLdcR1u87rjqWBcvk.dhzM4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 8.2 Killing processes
>You've launched processes, you've viewed processes, now you will learn to terminate processes! In Linux, this is done using the aggressively-named kill command. With default options (which is all we'll cover in this level), kill will terminate a process in a way that gives it a chance to get its affairs in order before ceasing to exist.

The ```kill``` command can terminate or 'kill' processes.

Syntax: ``` kill PID_of_program_that_needs_to_be_terminated ```

### Flag
This challenge required to kill a program before running /challege/run to get the flag.
```
pwn.college{sxsQ2OFxRRDBm2QhoeM_MmK5yU8.dJDN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 8.3 Intereupting processes
>You've learned how to kill other processes with the kill command, but sometimes you just want to get rid of the process that's clogging up your terminal.

```Ctrl-c```, interupts any and all applications waiting on input from the terminal and generally will cause the program to exit without issues.

### Flag
In this challenge we had to interrupt /challenge/run to get the flag
```
pwn.college{ED3yJegVjZ6XUQVCX9RqOQwdaOD.dNDN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 8.4 Suspending processes
>You have learned to interrupt processes with Ctrl-C, but there are less drastic measures you can use to get your terminal back! You can suspend processes to the background with Ctrl-Z.

We can suspend processes instead of terminating it with ```ctrl-z```.

### Flag
This challenge required to run the program, suspend it, and run a copy of it to get the flag.
```
pwn.college{oFHJVUwoWu_O_xLEYoH27iQbIvX.dVDN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 8.5 Resuming processes
>Usually, when you suspend processes, you'll want to resume them at some point. Otherwise, why not just terminate them? To resume processes, your shell provides the fg command, a builtin that takes the suspended process, resumes it, and puts it back in the foreground of your terminal.

A suspended process can be resumed using ```fg```.

### Flag
This challenge required the user to suspend the run process, and then resume it to get the flag.
```
pwn.college{sJWm5zmiC9bjWNl9enBFgOh0_wN.dZDN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 8.6 Backgrounding Processes
>You've resumed processes in the foreground with the fg command. You can also resume processes in the background with the bg command.

You can use the shell while running the program without having to suspend it competely, simply suspend it, and launch it in the background with ```bg``` instead of foreground.

### Flag
This challenge required the user to launch a program, suspend it, and launch it in the background to keep it running and keep the user active on the terminal.
```
pwn.college{UXkln1JqqsoS4QWQ0gcadifEG__.ddDN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 8.7 Foregrounding processes
>Imagine that you have a backgrounded process, and you want to mess with it some more. What do you do? Well, you can foreground a backgrounded process with fg just like you foreground a suspended process.

Assuming you have backgrounded a process and using the terminal, to use and invoke commands in the program again, you can bring it out to the front again using ```fg```.

### Flag
```
pwn.college{8Wq4pkezWo6D_SvwWJYacoJNHKD.dhDN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 8.8 Starting background processes
>Of course, you don't have to suspend processes to background them: you can start the backgrounded right off the bat.

The need for suspending a process to start it in the background seems tedious, and one can start a process directly in the background using ```&```

Syntax: ```processName &```

### Flag
This challenge required the user to run the program in the background directly.
```
pwn.college{4VJWH830SRz3QVx2WmgO9HNiIga.dlDN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 8.9 Process exit codes
>Every shell command, including every program and every builtin, exits with an exit code when it finishes running and terminates, This can be used by the shell, or the user of the shell (that's you!) to check if the process succeeded in its functionality (this determination, of course, depends on what the process is supposed to do in the first place).

The user can access the exit code of the most recently-terminated command using ```?```, which is a variable, so it will need ```$``` prepended before it to read it.

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to get an exit code from a program and run it as argument of another program to get the flag.
```
pwn.college{gHJ4CPUvPh69i_A803MlC7U2CQE.dljN4UDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>







