# Perceiving permissions
>This module will expose you to Linux permissions, which is one of the most important part of your journey going ahead.
In Linux, files have different permissions or file modes. You can check out a permissions of a file or directory using ```ls -l```

```
>hacker@dojo:~$ mkdir pwn_directory
>hacker@dojo:~$ touch college_file
>hacker@dojo:~$ ls -l
>total 4
>-rw-r--r-- 1 hacker hacker    0 May 22 13:42 college_file
>drwxr-xr-x 2 hacker hacker 4096 May 22 13:42 pwn_directory
>hacker@dojo:~$
```

>The first character of each line represents the file type. In pwn_directory's case, the d indicates that it's a directory, and in college_file's case, the - represents that it's a normal file.

>The next nine characters are the actual access permissions of the file or directory.
>There are two columns showing the user that owns the file (in this case, user hacker) and then the group that owns the file (in this case, also group hacker).


## 9.1 Changing file ownership
>Every file in Linux is owned by a user on the system. Most often, in your day-to-day life, that user is the user you log in as every day.
>root. This is the administrative account and, in most security situations, the ultimate prize. If you take over the root user, you've almost certainly achieved your hacking objective.

This program teaches how to change permissions of files, specifically the user permission. We can do this using the ```chown``` command, which can typically be only accessed by the root user, however for this challenge this is an exception.

Syntax: ``` chown userName fileName ```

### Flag
This challenge required the user to change the owner of the /flag file.
```
pwn.college{QOftR8AcB8L19UsRjwQpKI02OYu.dFTM2QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 9.2 Groups and files
>Sharing is caring, and sharing is built into Linux's design. Files have both an owning user and group. A group can have multiple users in it, and a user can be a member of multiple groups.

We can change the permissons of a file, we can also change the group ownership of a file, which also typically can only be done by the root user.

Syntax: ``` chgrp grpName fileName ```

One can also check what group they are in using the ```id``` command.

### Flag
This challenge required the user to change the permission of the /flag files group and read the file.
```
pwn.college{I22oXV-sk_2RxvE-WzzvNf6Qysc.dFzNyUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 9.3 Fun with group names
>In the previous levels, you may have noticed that your hacker user is a member of the hacker group, and that zardus is a member of the zardus group. There is a convention in Linux that every user has their own group, but this does not have to be the case.

Not every linux user has their own group, one user can be part of many groups.

### Flag
This challenge required the user to change the group to their group that they found using the ```id``` command.
```
pwn.college{kF1Dr6ylCh4NwuC1ANnUMd3alCr.dJzNyUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 9.4 Changing permissions
>So now we're well-versed in ownership. Let's talk about the other side of the coin: file permissions.

The first character on ```ls -l``` of any file/directory always specifies the file type. The next nine characters display information about the permissions of the file, split into 3 groups of 3 characters each. The first 3 characters denoting permissions for the **OWNING USER**, next 3 denoting permissions for the **OWNING GROUP**, and the last 3 denoting the permissions that all other access(other groups and users).

>r - user/group/other can read the file (or list the directory)
>w - user/group/other can modify the files (or create/delete files in the directory)
>x - user/group/other can execute the file as a program (or can enter the directory, e.g., using `cd`)
>- - nothing 

Like ownership, file permissons can also be changed, also typically only possible by the root user for obvious reasons.

Syntax: ```chmod [OPTIONS] MODE FILE```.

The 'MODE' here can be specified in 2 ways, a modification or a rewrite/overwrite.

This challenge only elaborates on the modification. The general syntax for modification of permissions in easier langauge can be seen as : ```who +/- what```. For example, to add **READ** access for the **OWNING USER**, the mode specified would be u+r.

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to change the permissions of /flag to allow the useer to read it.
```
pwn.college{Aax6jAnjsM-QzxOT4SUBJr5A_gI.dNzNyUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 9.5 Executable files
>So far, you have mostly been dealing with read permissions. This makes sense, because you have been making the /flag file readable to read it. In this level, we will explore execute permissions.

The file is owned by the ```root``` user and group, therefore we have to add execute permissions for **OTHER** users.

### Flag
This program requires the user to make the /challenge/run file executable by changing its permissions.
```
pwn.college{sTI6C8EH8rgf582kri9SQGoDMvo.dJTM2QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 9.6 Permission tweaking practice
>You think you can chmod? Let's practice.

This challenge is a rapid fire no mistake round for changing permissions.

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to get the permissons right 8 times in a row.
```
pwn.college{o6Y0rZdPOoejD3EaqYt9F3oM7OA.dBTM2QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 9.7 Permissons setting practice
>In addition to adding and removing permissions, as in the previous level, chmod can also simply set permissions altogether, overwriting the old ones. This is done by using = instead of - or +.

The latter part of mode, which is used to set permissions can be used by using the ```=``` instead of +/-.
multiple permissions can be set at once using ```,```.

This level requires more radical permission changes, like the last level but more challenging.

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to SET the permissons right 8 times in a row.
```
pwn.college{wXHS-_26YERQjOp6mN9TNUaUsGu.dNTM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 9.8 The SUID Bit
>There are many cases in which non-root users need elevated access to do certain system tasks. The system admin can't be there to give them the password every time a user wanted to do a task that only root/sudoers can do. The "Set User ID" (SUID) permissions bit allows the user to run a program as the owner of that program's file.

This is actually the feature that lets the user run the challenge programs to get the flag on pwn.college, and enable system administration tools such as ```su``` or ```sudo```.

For any program with ```ls -l``` containing an ```s``` instead of x, means that any user with executable permissions, can run that program as it will run as the owner user.

Syntax: ``` chmod u+s programName ```

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to set the SUID bit on a program, which launches a root shell where the user can get the flag.
```
pwn.college{gxDZq1URPDoL_J2dcG3wZ0-8bUi.dNTM2QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
