# Untangling Users
>You have experience with two users: hacker and root. These are just two users, and there are MANY more on a typical Linux system! The full list of users on a Linux system is specified in the /etc/passwd file (named so for historical reasons --- it doesn't actually hold passwords anymore)\

## 10.1 Becoming root with su
>Becoming root is a fairly common action that Linux users take, and your typical Linux installation obviously does not have /challenge/getroot. Instead, there are two utilities used for this purposes: ```su``` and ```sudo```.

Because ```su``` has the suit bit, ```su``` runs as root, meaning it can start a root shell. Before it can however, the shell asks to make sure it knows the root password. Modern day systems generally DO NOT have root passwords. However, this challenge does.

### Flag
This challlenge requires the user to enter the root password and become root to get the flag.
```
pwn.college{s2EC3KRG9TY-TUBWdqukDCZYE5g.dVTN0UDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 10.2 Other users with su
>With no arguments, su will start a root shell (after authenticating with root's password). However, you can also give a username as an argument to switch to that user instead of root.

This challenge shows us how to change into different users with su instead of just the root user.

Syntax: ```su userName```

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to swithc to zardus user with ```su``` to get the flag.
```
pwn.college{A-D_iYQ4ahF6V1QZ863B6kFqXO4.dZTN0UDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 10.3 Cracking passwords
>When you enter a password for su, it compares it against the stored password for that user. These passwords used to be stored in /etc/passwd, but because /etc/passwd is a globally-readable file, this is not good for passwords, these were moved to /etc/shadow.

When a password is entered, it is hashed (one-way encrypted) and compared against the pre-encrypted value of the hashed password.

>If a hacker gets their hands on a leaked /etc/shadow, they can start cracking passwords and wreaking havoc. The cracking can be done via the famous John the Ripper.
```
>hacker@dojo:~$ john ./my-leaked-shadow-file
>Loaded 1 password hash (crypt, generic crypt(3) [?/64])
>Will run 32 OpenMP threads
>Press 'q' or Ctrl-C to abort, almost any other key for status
>password1337      (zardus)
>1g 0:00:00:22 3/3 0.04528g/s 10509p/s 10509c/s 10509C/s lykys..lank
>Use the "--show" option to display all of the cracked passwords reliably
>Session completed
```

Syntax: ``` john filePath ```

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to 'john' out the password and ```su``` into zardus.
```
pwn.college{UzQoNNPeIC-VF1TNeFmoLNgkGkk.ddTN0UDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 10.4 Using sudo
>But root passwords are a pain to maintain, they (or their hashes!) can leak, and they don't lend themselves well to larger environments (e.g., fleets of servers). To address this, in recent decades, the world has moved from administration via su to administration via sudo (superuser do).

Where ```su``` tries to launch a shell as a specific user, ```sudo``` defaults to running a command as a user, in this case root.

>So, the world has moved to sudo and has (for the purposes of system administration) left su behind.

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to read the flag using sudo access.
```
pwn.college{8K8gtiSCIe3s-72fjKTRn7ouXKN.dhTN0UDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>







