# Chaining Commnds
>In the piping module, you've explored the concept of using several commands, with data flowing between them via pipes, to accomplish something slightly more complex than the individual commands can do. Of course, this concept also applies independent of the data transfer: sometimes, you might want to run several commands in quick succession to achieve up some cumulative effect.

## 11.1 Chaining with semicolons
>The easiest way to chain commands is ;. In most contexts, ; separates commands in a similar way to how Enter separates lines.

User can run multiple commands in the same terminal in one line, chained with a semicolon, as the semicolon gives the prompt to input another command.

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to chain 2 commands to get the flag
```
pwn.college{cufIfjnBkdJnD20YDwgvN1RQbNX.dVTN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 11.2 Your first shell script
>As you combine more and more commands to achieve complex effects, the length of the combined prompt quickly gets really annoying to deal with. When this happens, you can put these commands in a file, called a shell script, and run them by executing the file.
>```
>echo COLLEGE > pwn
>cat pwn
>hacker@dojo:~$ ls
>hacker@dojo:~$ bash pwn.sh
>COLLEGE
>hacker@dojo:~$ ls
>pwn
>hacker@dojo:~$
>```

Instead of chaining infinite commands using semicolons, user can put these commands in a shell script, and run them by executing the file.

### Flag
This challenge requires the user to run 2 commands in a shell script, and then run the shell script.
```
pwn.college{YoH_mXCqaEey68HyYImJD0CUZrf.dFzN4QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 11.3 Redirecting script output
>Let's try something a bit trickier! You've piped output between programs with |, but so far, this has just been between one command's output and a different command's input. But what if you wanted to send the output of several programs to one command? There are a few ways to do this, and we'll explore a simple one here: redirecting output from your script!

You can pipe entire scripts into the input of other commands using redirection methods documented earlier.
### Flag
This challenge requires the user to create a script that calls 2 commands and pipe its output into another command
```
pwn.college{ETVU3jwDRoa_omjqWRoexd3Zah8.dhTM5QDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 11.4 Executable shell scripts
>You have written your first shell script, but calling it via bash script.sh is a pain. Why do you need that bash?

The ```bash``` command with an argument of a shell script tells bash to read its commands from that shell script instead of stdin.

>It turns out that you can avoid the need to manually invoke bash. If your shell script file is executable (recall File Permissions), you can simply invoke it via its relative or absolute path.

Making the file permisson to be able to be executed by other users, the file can bee executed without the use of bash

### Flag
This challenge required the user to create a script, make it executable, and run it without bash.
```
pwn.college{UfJTGoT-Y_DAOaIJQrjhMgyYubs.dRzNyUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
