# Pondering PATH
>Thus far, you have invoked commands in several ways:

Through an absolute path (e.g., /challenge/run).
Through a relative path (e.g., ./run).
Through a bare command name (e.g., ls).
>But what about the last one? Where is the ls program located? How does the shell know to search for it there?

## 12.1 The PATH variable
>It turns out that the answer to "How does the shell find ls?" is fairly simple. There is a special shell variable, called PATH, that stores a bunch of directory paths in which the shell will search for programs corresponding to commands.

The PATH variable stores a LOT of directories for programs that corresponod to commands. If the variable is set to a blank value, no PATHS exist for most of the commands, therefore if there is not path for the command,, the command does not exist.

### Flag
This challenge required the user to disable the use of ```rm``` command using the PATH variable.
```
pwn.college{EqTdjDqeg2uMpy3ZgKPKSYBmuVg.dZzNwUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 12.2 Setting PATH
>Okay, so things break when you blank out PATH. But what about doing something useful with PATH?
Let's explore how we would, for example, add a new directory of programs to our command repertoire.

If the user has useful scripts with a chain of commands to be executed, running them one by one using their whole path is tedious and inefficient. Setting the PATH variable to the path where all the scripts are located

### Flag
This challenge required the user to set the PATH variable to a certain directory to get the flag.
```
pwn.college{06h2ndYZ_BVBuqtklDbDLPlrdbS.dVzNyUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 12.3 Adding Commands
>What we see here, of course, is the hacker making the shell more useful for themselves by bringing their own commands to the party. Over time, you might amass your own elegant tools. Let's start with win.

When we set the PATH directory to where ```win``` is, the ```cat``` command ceases to exist as the PATH is not set to where the cat command is.

### Flag
This challenge required the user to find a workaround for using both win and cat at the same time.
```
pwn.college{YVcFXlmaVsyCZGq5egso1-4jmWK.dZzNyUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>

## 12.4 Hijacking commands
>Armed with your knowledge, you can now carry out some shenanigans. This challenge is almost the same as the first challenge in this module. Again, this challenge will delete the flag using the rm command. But unlike before, it will not print anything out for you.

### Flag

```
pwn.college{EvuabcDuBvswNE6IRecUxwXbIBj.ddzNyUDLwETN0czW}
```
<br>
<br>



